Nuclear weapons are one of the most powerful and feared inventions in the world. Such a powerful weapon is bound to be surrounded by discussion. The main discussion is whether or not having nuclear weapons is acceptable. To form an opinion on the matter one must first understand the history, effects, and availability of nuclear weapons.
	First, a person must know the history of nuclear weapons. The first nuclear weapons were created during WWII. When the US feared that Hitler was making nuclear weapons they started research of their own. This lead to the US creating the first nuclear bomb. After testing the bomb, the US then became the first and only country to use a nuclear weapon. They dropped two bombs, one on Hiroshima and one on Nagasaki. After this the debate started, along with an arms race. This resulted in the cold war with the US and USSR both stockpiling nuclear weapons. Eventually they reached an agreement and both stopped producing nuclear weapons. That lead to the problems we face today, other countries developing nuclear weapons. The reason nuclear weapons cause such problems is because how devastating they are on human life.
	Second, a person needs to understand the effects of nuclear weapons. During an explosion temperatures are millions of degrees Celsius and create a fireball of white heat. The mushroom cloud people think of is the result of updrafts lifting debris from the ground into the air. Intense radiation and heat are released and travel in winds at thousands of miles per hour before falling from the sky (nuclear fallout). The effect this has on a human body is devastating. Humans who are outside are disintegrated with only their shadows left scorched on walls. Humans inside structures die from the damage inflicted on the structures as inflammable things catch fire. Those people farther away are effected by the nuclear fallout and can suffer from things as extreme as cancer and birth defects. 
	Third, a person needs to know the availability of nuclear weapons. There are currently 16,400 nuclear weapons on earth, down from over 65,000 in 1980. Only five countries are declared nuclear weapon zones: US, UK, France, Russia, and China. However, many countries have been suspected of developing nuclear weapons including India, Pakistan, Israel, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria, and Korea. The US has nuclear weapons all throughout Europe for use by all NATO allies. Since the Cold War nuclear weapon development has been heavily monitored.
	The power and danger of nuclear weapons cause many people to discuss the ethics of their existence. Therefore, they have only been used tactically twice in battle. Thousands of other tests and demonstrations have been done with nuclear weapons. Fortunately, very few countries have access to this grade of weapons. With the limited existence and extensive knowledge, it is unlikely that nuclear weapons will be used except in the most extreme cases.
