Nuclear weapons are one of the most powerful and feared inventions in the world. Such a powerful weapon is bound to be surrounded by discussion. The main discussion is whether or not having nuclear weapons is acceptable. To form an opinion on the matter one must first understand the history, effects and facts associated with nuclear weapons.
	First nuclear weapons were created during world war two. When the US feared that Hitler was making nuclear weapons they started research of their own. This lead to the US creating the first nuclear bomb. After testing the US then became the first and only country to use a nuclear weapon. They dropped two one on Hiroshima and one on Nagasaki. After this the debate started along with an arms race. This resulted in the cold war with the US and USSR both stockpiling nuclear weapons. Eventually they reach agreement and both stop producing nuclear weapons. That lead to the problems of today where other countries began developing nuclear weapons. The reason nuclear weapons cause such problems is because how devastating they are.
	Second a person needs to understand the effects of nuclear weapons. During an explosion temperatures reach millions of degrees centigrade and create a fireball of white heat. The mushroom cloud is the result of updrafts lifting debris from the ground into the air. Intense radiation and heat are released and travel in winds at thousands of miles per hour before falling from the sky (nuclear fallout). The effect this has on a human body is devastating. Humans who are outside are disintegrated with only their shadows left scorched on walls. Humans inside structures die from the damage inflicted on the structures as inflammable things catch fire. Those people farther away are effected by the nuclear fallout and can suffer from things as extreme as cancer and birth defects. 
	Third a person needs to know the facts of nuclear weapons. There are currently 16,400 nuclear weapons on earth. This is down from over 65,000 in 1980. Only five countries are declared nuclear weapon zones. Those five are US, UK, France, Russia and China. However, many countries have been suspected of developing nuclear weapons. These countries include India, Pakistan, Israel, Iraq, Iran, Libya, Syria and Korea. The US has nuclear weapons all throughout Europe for use by all NATO allies. 
	Nuclear weapons are very powerful. Therefore, they have only been used tactically twice in battle. Thousands of other tests and demonstrations have been done with nuclear weapons. Weapons this powerful cause many people to question the ethics of ever using them. Fortunately, very few countries have access to this grade of weapons. With the limited existence and extensive knowledge, it is unlikely that nuclear weapons will be used except in the most extreme cases
